Javascript runtime refers to where your javascript code is executed when you run it. That said, javascript can be executed on google chrome,
in which case your javascript engine is v8, if on mozilla — it is spidermonkey, if IE — then its chakra,
if Safari — it’s nitro and if on node, again its v8.


                        Terminology
CONCURRENCY & PARALLELISM
Concurrency means executing multiple tasks at the same time but not simultaneously. E.g. two tasks works in overlapping time periods.

Parallelism means performing two or more tasks simultaneously, e.g. performing multiple calculations at the same time.

THREADS & PROCESSES
Threads are a sequence of code execution which can be executed independently of one another.

Process is an instance of a running program. A program can have multiple processes.

SYNCHRONOUS & ASYNCHRONOUS
In synchronous programming, tasks are executed one after another. Each task waits for any previous task to be completed and is executed only then.

In asynchronous programming, when one task is executed, you can switch to a different task without waiting for the previous one to be completed.

SYNCHRONOUS AND ASYNCHRONOUS IN A SINGLE AND MULTI-THREADED ENVIRONMENT
Synchronous with a single thread: Tasks are executed one after another. Each task waits for its previous task to get executed.

Synchronous with multiple threads: Tasks are executed in different threads but wait for any other executing tasks on any other thread.

Asynchronous with a single thread: Tasks start being executed without waiting for a different task to finish. At a given time, only a single task
can be executed.

Asynchronous with multiple threads: Tasks get executed in different threads without waiting for other tasks to be completed and finish their executions
independently.

JAVASCRIPT CLASSIFICATION
If we consider how JS engines works under the hood, we can classify JS as an asynchronous and single-threaded interpreted language.
The word "interpreted" is very important because it means that the language will always be runtime-dependent and never as fast as
compiled languages with built-in multi-threading.